
# The Error Correction Zoo

Error correction is what ensures that the audio in your phone calls remains sharp, your hard drives do not deteriorate too quickly, and signals can be reliably transmitted to remote satellites.

Over multiple decades, and with the explosion of the information age, an enormous variety of error-correction schemes were developed. Recently, a radically new type of error correction was introduced, one that can protect the quantum information that is stored in a quantum computer or that is communicated over a quantum network. Quantum enhancements also help with classical information transmission, yielding hybrid classical-quantum error-correction encodings.

We created the _Error Correction Zoo_ to categorize and to organize known classical and quantum error-correction schemes. It is inspired by other similar zoos, including the complexity zoo, the quantum algorithm zoo, the quantum protocol zoo, and the qubit zoo. Complementing popular coding theory databases such as Code Tables and MinT, the EC Zoo provides succinct pedagogical descriptions as well as relations and hierarchies among different codes.

Code entries form the primary content of the EC Zoo. An entry can be a specific instance of a well-known code or a large family of codes, depending on community interest. Each entry is processed into a dedicated up-to-date webpage for its code family, collecting original work, related protocols, and real-world implementations. A related LaTeX plugin allows for direct linking to Zoo pages from LaTeX-generated articles.

A founding feature of the EC zoo is separation of data storage from presentation. Code information displayed in the zoo is stored in a structured form on github.com. This mechanism allows for the presentation of data in various ways, including through a code graph and code lists.

We hope you enjoy your visit! If you have feedback, please drop us a line. We'd love to hear from you.

## The Zoo Team

A team of wonderful people have made it possible to create and maintain this zoo.

## Contributing

Do you feel like contributing? Don't hesitate to send us an email or a pull request! You can also check out our contributing guidelines.


_Error correction zoo by Victor V. Albert, Philippe Faist, and many contributors. This work is licensed under a CC-BY-SA License. See how to contribute._